11 Dec 2009 12:35 PM  ( 26 mins 28 secs ago )


Hi Martin,

I'd like to start off by thanking you for writing this module. Both the code
and the subcommands example have been extremely useful in both setting up my
cli as well as providing bash/zsh completion.

With that said, I ran into a couple of issues with optcomplete, outlined
below, that I fixed:

1. OptionParser prints to stderr and then calls sys.exit when receiving
ambiguous options. For global options, optcomplete trys/excepts the parse_args
method on the global OptionParser to assist in completion. This works fine
except that the msgs printed to stderr show up in the middle of the results
for completion. I've fixed this problem (links at the bottom).

2. optcomplete sets AllCompleter for anything that takes an arg and doesn't
have a completer. AllCompleter simply displays the current pwd making it
impossible to complete files/dirs in other locations. I've found that setting
by default NoneCompleter instead of AllCompleter and using the following bash
completion line allows the shell to take over completion when completion
results are null (ie completions=[]):

complete -F _optcomplete -o default someprog

Basically I've added "-o default" to the bash completion declaration which
tells the shell to use the shell's completion for any null completion results.
This allows the user to complete files/dirs as they're used to.

3. The zsh completion config (/etc/optcomplete.zsh) gave me issues when using
with the latest zsh. I found a better solution which does not require
maintaining two separate optcomplete completion functions for bash/zsh. I'm
using optcomplete for my project StarCluster (http://web.mit.edu/star) and
this is how I'm instructing my zsh users to install completion for
StarCluster:

Basically you keep the script you have for bash (with the complete line above)
and use this in your zshrc/zprofile/etc:

autoload -U compinit && compinit
autoload -Uz bashcompinit && bashcompinit
source /path/to/bash-completion/script.sh

This allows the same completion script to be used for both bash and zsh and
I've tested that it works great :D

You can find my patched version of optcomplete.py that fixes the issues above
here:

http://github.com/jtriley/StarCluster/blob/master/starcluster/optcomplete.py

And my completion docs/configs for users here:

http://github.com/jtriley/StarCluster/tree/master/completion/

Please feel free to absorb these changes into optcomplete. I will keep
updating this module as necessary and inform you of any bugs I have or fix.

Thanks again for this wonderful module!

~Justin 
